Ansible uses a simple syntax YAML and simple command line tools using common POSIX conventions for all its powerful abilities. Code samples and commands will be highlighted throughout the book either inline for example ansible command , or in a code block with or without line numbers like.
This is the beginning of a YAML file.
Some lines of YAML and other code examples require more than characters per line, resulting in the code wrapping to a new line. Wrapping code is indicated by a at the end of the line of code. For example
The line of code wraps due to the extremely long URL.
wget http www.example.com really really really long path in the url causes the line to wrap
When using the code, dont copy the character and make sure you dont use a newline between the first line with the trailing and the next line
Links to pertinent resources and websites are added inline, like the following link Ansible, and can be viewed directly by clicking on them in eBook formats, or by following the URL in the footnotes.
Sometimes, asides are added to highlight further information about a specific topic
Informational asides will provide extra information.
Warning asides will warn about common pitfalls and how to avoid them.
Tip asides will give tips for deeping you understanding or optimizing your use of Ansible.
Please help improve this book
New revisions of this book are published on a regular basis. If you think a particular section needs improvement or fing something missing, please contact me via Twitter geerlingguy Google a comment on this books Feedback page on LeanPub, or whatever method in convenint for you.
All known issues with Ansible for DevOps will be aggregated on the books online Errata page as well as in the books Changelog for the benefit of those who purchase the book on a platform that allows frequent releases between editions.
Introduction
In the beginning, there were susadmins
Since the beginning of networked computing, deploying and managing servers reliably and efficiently has been a challenge. Historically, system administrators have typically been walled off from the developers and users who interact with the systems they administer, and so they have had to manage servers by hand, installing software, changing configurations, and administering services on individual servers.
As data centers grew, and hosted applications became more complex, administrators realized they couldnt scale their manual systems management as fast as the applications they were enabling. Thats why server procisioning and configuration management tools came to flourish.
Server virtualization brought large scale infrastucture mangement to the force, and the number of server managed by one admin or by a small team of admins, has grown by an order of magnitude. Instead of deploying, patchig, and destroying ever server by hand, admins now are expected to bring up new servers, either automatically or with minimal intervention. Large scale IT deployments now may involve hundreds or thousands of servers in many of the largest environments, server provisioning, configuration, and decommissioning are all entirely automated.
Modern infrastructure management 
As the systems that run applications become an ever more complex and integral part of the software they run, application developers themselves have begun to integrate their work more fully with operations personnel. In many companies, development and operations work is almost fully integrated. Indeed, this integration is a requirement for modern test driven applications design.
Modern infrastructure management
As the systems that run applications become an ever more complex and integral part of the software they run, application developers themselves have begun to integrate their work more fully with operations personnel. In many companies, development and operations work is almost fully integrated. Indeed, this integration is a requirement for modern test driven application design.
As a software developer by trade, and a sysadmin by necessity, I have seen the power in uniting development and operations more commonly referred to now as DevOps. When developers begin to think of infrastructure as part of their application, stability and performance become normative. When sysadmins most of whom have intermediate to advanced knowledge of the applications and languages being used on servers they manage work tightly with developers, development velocity is improved, and more time is spent doing fun activities like performance tuning, experimentation, and getting things done, and less time putting out fires.
DevOps is a loaded word; some people argue that using the word to identify both the movement of development and the personnel who skew slightly more towards the system administration side of the equation, dilutes the words meaning. I think the word has come to be a rallying cry for the employees who are dragging their startups, small businesses, and enterprised into a new era of ingrastructure growth and stability. I m not too concerned that the term has become more of a catch all the for modern infrastructure management. My advice spend less time arguing over the definition of the word, and more time making it mean something to you.
Ansible and Ansible Inc.
Ansible was released is 2012 by Michael DeHaan laserllama on Twitter, a developer who has been working with configuration management and infrastructure orchestration in one form or another for many years. Through his work with Puppet Labs and RedHat where he worked on Cobbler, a configuration management tool and Func, a tool for communicating commands to remote servers, and some other projects, he experinced the trials and tribulations of many different organizations and individual sysadmins on their quest to simplify and automate their infrasture management operations.
Additionally, Michael found many shops were using separate tools for configuration mangement Puppet, Chef, cfengine, server deployment Capistrano, Fabric, and ad hoc task execution Func, plain SSH, and wanted to see if there was a better way.Ansible wraps up all three of these features into one tool, and does it in a way thats actually simpler and more consistent than any of the other task specific tools.
Ansible aims to be.
Clear Ansible uses a simple syntax YAML and is easy for anyone developers sysadmins, mangers to understand. APIs are simple and sensible
Fast Fast to learn, fast to set up especially considering you dont need to install extra agents or daemons on all your servers
Complete Ansible does three things in one, and does them very well. Ansibles batteries included approach means you have everything you need in one complete package.
Efficent No extra softeare on your servers means more resources for your applications. Also, since Ansible modules work via JSON, Ansible is extensible with modules written in a programming language you already know.
Secure Ansible uses SSH, and requires no extra open ports or potentially vulnerable daemons on your servers.
Ansible also has a lighter side that gives the project a little personality. As an example, Ansibles major releases are named after Vab Halen song e.g. was named after Could This Be Magic and after Love Walks In. Additionally, Ansible will use cowsay, if installed, to wrap output in an ASCII cows speech bubble this behavior can be disabled in Ansibles configuration.
Ansible Inc was founded by Said Ziouani SaidZiouani on Twitter and Michael DeHaan, and oversees core Ansible development and procides services such as Automation Jump Start and extra tooling such as Ansible Tower to organizations using Ansible. Hundreds of individual developers have contributed patches to Ansible, is the most starred infrastructure management tool on GitHub with over stars as of this writing. Ansible, Inc. has proven itself to be a good steward and promoter of Ansible so far and I see no indication of this changing in the future.
Ansible Examples playbook, roles, infrasture, configuraltion, etc throughout this book. Most of the examples are in the Ansible for DevOps GitHub repository, so you can browse the code in its final state while youre reading the book. Some of the line numbering may not match the book exactly especially if youre reading an older version of the book, but I will try my best to keep everything synchronized over time.
