Chapter Local Infrastructure Development Ansible and Vagrant
Prototyping and testing with local virtual machines
Ansible works will with any server to which you can connect remote or local. For speedier testing and development of Ansible playbooks, and for testing in general, its a very good idea to work locally. Local development and testing of infrasture is both safer and faster than doing it on remote live machine especially in production environements
In the past decade, test driven development TDD, in one form or another, has become the norm for much of the software industry. Infrastructure development hasnt been as organized until recently, and best practices dictate that infrasture which is becoming more and more important to the software that runs on it should be thoroghly tested as well.
Changes to software are tested either manually or in some automated fashion there are now systems that integrate both with Ansible and with other deployment and configuration management tools, to allow some amount of infrastructure testing as well. Even if its just testing a configuration change locally before applying it to production, that approach is a thousand times better than what, is in the software development world, would ve be called cowboy coding working directly in a production environment, not documentating or encapsulation encapsulating cah changes in code, and not having a way yto to roll back to ap p a previous version.
Tje t The past devade dev dece decade has seen the growth of many c virtualization tools that allwo allow for flexible and very powerful infracture emulation, all from your local workstation Its empro empr empt epm empoweing to v be able to play around with a config file, or to te tweak the order of a server update to perfectionm perfection, over and over again, with no t fear of vr breaking an in important server. iIf If you use a local virtyal virtual machine, theres no downtime for a server rebuild just re run the provisioning on a new B VM, and youre back uo up and running in minutes with a one the wiser.
bB Vagrant a , a server provisioning tool, and Virtual V VirtualB ox Virtual vir b VirtualBox ., a local virtualin z virtualization ev enbb enviroment , make a por potent combination for testing infrastui infrastructure and indivifual individual server configurations locally. Both applications are free and open source, and work well on Mac , Linux, or Windows hosts.
