Chapter Local Infrastructure Development: Ansible and Vagrant
Prototyping and testing with local virtual machines
Ansible works well with any server to which you can connect remote or local. For speedier testing and development of Ansible playbooks, and for testing in genral, its a very good idea to work locally. Local development and testing of infrastructure is both safer and faster than doing it on remote/ live machines espacially in production environments
In the past decade, test driven development TDD, in one form or another, has become the norm for much of the software industury. Infrastructure development hasnt been as organized until recently, and best practices dictate that infrastructure which is becoming more and more important to the software that runs on it should be throughly tested as well.
Changes to software are tested either manually or in some automated fashion; there are now systems that integrate both with Ansible and with other development and configuration management tools, allow some amount of infrastructure testing as well. Even if its just testing a configuration change locally before applying it to production, that approach is a thousand times better than what, in the software developmet world, would be called cowboy coding working directly in a previous version.
The past decade has seen the growth of many virtualization tools that allow for flexible and very powerful infrastructure emulation, all from your local workstation Its empowering to be able to play around with a config file, or to tweak the order of a server update to perfection, over and over again, with no fear of breaking an important server. If you use a local virtual machine, theres no downtime for a server rebuild; just re run the provisioning on a new VM, and youre back up and running in minutes with no one the wiser.
Vagrant a server provisioning tool, and VirtualBox, a local virtualization environment, make a potent combination for testig infrastructure and individual server configurations locally. Both applications are free and open source, and work well on Mac, Linux, or Windows hosts.

