a well organized paragraph supports or develops a single controlling idea, which is expressed in a sentence called the topic sentence. a topic sentence has several important function. it is substantiates or supports an essays thesis statement it unifies the content of a paragraph and directs the order of the sentences and it advises the reader of the subject to be discussed and how the paragraph will discuss it. readers generally look to the first few sentences in a paragraph to determine the suject and perspective of the paragraph. that why its often best to put the topic sentence at the very beginning of the paragraph. in some cases, however its more effective to place another sentence before the topic sentence for example a sentence linking the current paragraph to the previous one or one providing background information.
although most paragraphs should have a topic sentence, there are a few situations when a paragraph might not need a topic sentence. for example, you might be able to omit a topic sentence in a paragraph that narrates a series of events. if a paragraph continues developing an idea that you introduced in the previous or if all sentences and details in a paragraph clearly perhaps indirectly to a main point. the vast majority of your paragraphs, however, should have a topic sentence.
most paragraphs in an essay have a three part structure introduction body and conclusion. you can this structure in paragraphs whether they are narrating, describing, comparing, or analyzing information. each part of the paragraph plays an important role in communicating your meaning to your reader.

introduction the first section of a paragraph, should include the topic sentence and any other sentences at the beginning of the paragraph that give background information or provide a transition.

body follows the introduction discusses the controlling idea, using facts arguments, analysis, examples, and other information.

conclusion the final senction summarizes the connections between the information discussed in the body of paragraph and the paragraphs controlling idea.

the following paragraph illustrates this pattern of organization. in this paragraph the topic sentence and concluding sentence both help the reader keep the paragraphs main point in mind.

in front of the tiny pupil of the eye they put on mount palomar a great monocle inches in diameter, and with it see times farther into depths of space or they look throgh a small pair of lenses arraged as a microscope into a drop of water or blood, and magnify by as much as diameter the living creatres there, many of which are among mans most dangerous enemies. or if we want to see distant happenings on earth they use some of the previously wasted electromagnetic waves to carry television images which they re create as light by whipping tiny crystals on a screen with electrons in a vaccum. or they can bring happenings of long ago and far away as colored motion pictures by arranging silver atoms and color absorbing molecules to force light waves into the patterns of original. or if we want to see into center of a steel casting or the chest of an injured child, they send the information on a beam of penetrating short wave x rays, and then convert it back into images we can see on a screen or photograph. thus almost everty type of electromagnetic radiation yet discobered has been used to extend our sense  of sight in some way.

in a coherent paragraph, each sentence relates clearly to the topic sentence or controlling idea, but there is more to coherence than this. if a paragraph is coherent, each sentence flows smoothly into the next without obvious shifts or jumps. a coherent paragraph also highlights the ties between old information and next without obvious shifts or jumps. a coherent paragraph also highlights the ties between old information and new information to make the structure of ideas or arguments clear to the reader.

along with the smooth flow of sentences, a paragraphs coherence may also be related to its length. if you have written a very long paragraph, one that fills a double spaced typed page, for example, you should check it carefully to see if itshould start a new paragraph where the original paragraph wanders from its controlling idea. on the other hand if a paragraph is very short you may need to develop its controlling idea more thoroughly, or combine it with another paragraph.

along with the smooth flow of sentences, a paragraphs coherence may also be related to its length. if you have written a very long paragraph, one that fills a double spaced typed page, for example you should check it carefully to see if it should start a new paragraph where the original paragraph wanders from its controlling idea. on the other hand, if a paragraph is very short only one or two sentences perhaps you may need to develop its controlling idea more thoroghly, or combine it with another paragraph.

a number of other techniques that you can use to establish coherence in paragraphs are described below.

repeat key words or phrases. particularly in paragraphs in which you define or identify an imortant idea or theory, be consistent in how you refer to it. this consistency and repetition will bind the paragraph together and help your reader understand your definition or description.

create parallel structures parallel structures are created by constructing two or more phrases or sentences that have the same grammatical structure and use the same parts of speech. by creating parallel structures you make your sentences clearer and easier to read. in addition, repeating a pattern in a series of consecutive sentences helps your reader see the connections between ideas. in the paragraph above about scientists and sense of sight, several sentences in the body of the paragraph have been constructed in a parallel way. the parallel structures which have been emphasized help the reader see that the paragraph is organized as a set of examples of a general statement.

be consistent in point of view, verb tense, and number. consistency in point of view, verb tense, number is a subtle but important aspect of coherence. if you shift from the more personal you to the impersonal one, from past to present tense, or from a man to they for example you make your paragraph less coherent. such inconsistencies can also confuse your reader and make your argument more difficult to follow.

use transition words or phrases between sentences and between paragraphs, transitional expressions emphasize the relationships between ideas, so they help readers follow your train of thought or see connections that they might otherwise miss or misunderstand. the following paragraph shows how carefully chosen transition lead the reader smoothly from the introduction to the conclusion of the paragraph.

i dont wish to deny that the flattened, minuscle head of the large bodied stegosaurus houses little brain from our subjective top heavy perspective but i do wish to assert that we should not expect more of the beast. first of all large animals have relatively smaller brains than related small animals. the correlation of brain size with body size among kindred animals all reptiles all mammals for example is remarkably regular, as we move from small to large animals from mice to elephants or small lizards to komodo dragons, brain size increases, but not so fast as body size. in other words, bodies grow faster than brains, and large animals have low ratios of brain weight to body weight. in fact, brains grow only about two thirds as fast as bodies. since we have no reason to believe that large animals are consistently stupider than their small relatives, we must conclude that large animals relatively less brain to do as well as smaller animals. if we do not recognize this relationship, we are likely to understimate the mental power of very large animals,dinosaur in paricular.


to show addition again and also besides, equally important, first further futhermore in addition in the first place, moreover,next, too






